---
layout: post
title: The Code Wars
date: 2016-12-07
categories: coding
tags: [code]
---

Today I'm starting a new series called 'The Code Wars'.  Everyday, I'm going to solve a new challenge on the site  [codewars](https://www.codewars.com) using javascript and I'm going to walk through my process on how I arrived at the answer.  The aim is to help you solve code problems systematically.

<!--more-->

The challenge today is:

> Description:

> Your task is to sort a given string. Each word in the String will contain a single number. This number is the position the word should have in the result.

> Note: Numbers can be from 1 to 9. So 1 will be the first word (not 0).

> If the input String is empty, return an empty String. The words in the input String will only contain valid consecutive numbers.

> For an input: "is2 Thi1s T4est 3a" the function should return "Thi1s is2 3a T4est"

Go ahead and try it out first, i'll wait!

.
.
.

Done? Stuck? Lost???

Lets walk through this together.

First we bust out the old pen and paper.  Archaic yes but I've found that it is the best way to express your thoughts, remove a layer of abstraction and physically imprint your ideas.  

Next, I listed the problem, relevant data and constraints:

> * Each string has at least one number.
> * The number will be the position of each word.
> * Numbers are from 1 to 9.
> * Empty strings should be returned as is.

That about covers it.  Next we write some pseudo code to get a feel for a solution.

> * split string into an array
> * copy the array
> * iterate through each item in the array
> * iterate through each character of each item in the array
> * check to see if the character is a number.
> * if it is, assign the item to the index of the copied array that equals the character - 1 ( since 1 represents the beginning of string instead of 0).
> * then join and return the copied array.

Heres what I came up with:

```javascript
function order(words){
  var array = words.split(' ');
  var result = array.slice();

  for (word in array) {
    for (var i = 0; i < array[word].length; i++) {
       if (!isNaN(array[word][i])) {
         result[array[word][i] - 1] = array[word]
       }
     }
   }return result.join(' ');  
}
```

And thats it!

Let me know if you find a more efficient solution.
